<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXVII: Two Visits</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-27" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">XXVII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Two Visits</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>It was Nancy who was sent to tell <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝJohn Pendleton of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr>¬ÝMead‚Äôs verdict. Miss Polly had remembered her promise to let him have direct information from the house. To go herself, or to write a letter, she felt to be almost equally out of the question. It occurred to her then to send Nancy.</p>
			<p>There had been a time when Nancy would have rejoiced greatly at this extraordinary opportunity to see something of the House of Mystery and its master. But today her heart was too heavy to, rejoice at anything. She scarcely even looked about her at all, indeed, during the few minutes, she waited for <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝJohn Pendleton to appear.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôm Nancy, sir,‚Äù she said respectfully, in response to the surprised questioning of his eyes, when he came into the room. ‚ÄúMiss Harrington sent me to tell you about‚ÅÝ‚ÄîMiss Pollyanna.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell?‚Äù</p>
			<p>In spite of the curt terseness of the word, Nancy quite understood the anxiety that lay behind that short ‚Äúwell?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt ain‚Äôt well, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝPendleton,‚Äù she choked.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou don‚Äôt mean‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù He paused, and she bowed her head miserably.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes, sir. He says‚ÅÝ‚Äîshe can‚Äôt walk again‚ÅÝ‚Äînever.‚Äù</p>
			<p>For a moment there was absolute silence in the room; then the man spoke, in a voice shaken with emotion.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúPoor‚ÅÝ‚Äîlittle‚ÅÝ‚Äîgirl! Poor‚ÅÝ‚Äîlittle‚ÅÝ‚Äîgirl!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Nancy glanced at him, but dropped her eyes at once. She had not supposed that sour, cross, stern John Pendleton could look like that. In a moment he spoke again, still in the low, unsteady voice.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúIt seems cruel‚ÅÝ‚Äînever to dance in the sunshine again! My little prism girl!‚Äù</p>
			<p>There was another silence; then, abruptly, the man asked:</p>
			<p>‚ÄúShe herself doesn‚Äôt know yet‚ÅÝ‚Äîof course‚ÅÝ‚Äîdoes she?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBut she does, sir,‚Äù sobbed Nancy, ‚Äúan‚Äô that‚Äôs what makes it all the harder. She found out‚ÅÝ‚Äîdrat that cat! I begs yer pardon,‚Äù apologized the girl, hurriedly. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs only that the cat pushed open the door an‚Äô Miss Pollyanna overheard ‚Äôem talkin‚Äô. She found out‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat way.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúPoor‚ÅÝ‚Äîlittle‚ÅÝ‚Äîgirl!‚Äù sighed the man again.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes, sir. You‚Äôd say so, sir, if you could see her,‚Äù choked Nancy. ‚ÄúI hain‚Äôt seen her but twice since she knew about it, an‚Äô it done me up both times. Ye see it‚Äôs all so fresh an‚Äô new to her, an‚Äô she keeps thinkin‚Äô all the time of new things she can‚Äôt do‚ÅÝ‚Äî<em>now</em>. It worries her, too, ‚Äôcause she can‚Äôt seem ter be glad‚ÅÝ‚Äîmaybe you don‚Äôt know about her game, though,‚Äù broke off Nancy, apologetically.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThe ‚Äòglad game‚Äô?‚Äù asked the man. ‚ÄúOh, yes; she told me of that.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, she did! Well, I guess she has told it generally ter most folks. But ye see, now she‚ÅÝ‚Äîshe can‚Äôt play it herself, an‚Äô it worries her. She says she can‚Äôt think of a thing‚ÅÝ‚Äînot a thing about this not walkin‚Äô again, ter be glad about.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, why should she?‚Äù retorted the man, almost savagely.</p>
			<p>Nancy shifted her feet uneasily.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat‚Äôs the way I felt, too‚ÅÝ‚Äîtill I happened ter think‚ÅÝ‚Äîit <em>would</em> be easier if she could find somethin‚Äô, ye know. So I tried to‚ÅÝ‚Äîto remind her.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúTo remind her! Of what?‚Äù John Pendleton‚Äôs voice was still angrily impatient.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOf‚ÅÝ‚Äîof how she told others ter play it Mis‚Äô Snow, and the rest, ye know‚ÅÝ‚Äîand what she said for them ter do. But the poor little lamb just cries, an‚Äô says it don‚Äôt seem the same, somehow. She says it‚Äôs easy ter <em>tell</em> lifelong invalids how ter be glad, but ‚Äôtain‚Äôt the same thing when you‚Äôre the lifelong invalid yerself, an‚Äô have ter try ter do it. She says she‚Äôs told herself over an‚Äô over again how glad she is that other folks ain‚Äôt like her; but that all the time she‚Äôs sayin‚Äô it, she ain‚Äôt really <em>thinkin‚Äô</em> of anythin‚Äô only how she can‚Äôt ever walk again.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Nancy paused, but the man did not speak. He sat with his hand over his eyes.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThen I tried ter remind her how she used ter say the game was all the nicer ter play when‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhen it was hard,‚Äù resumed Nancy, in a dull voice. ‚ÄúBut she says that, too, is diff‚Äôrent‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhen it really <em>is</em> hard. An‚Äô I must be goin‚Äô, now, sir,‚Äù she broke off abruptly.</p>
			<p>At the door she hesitated, turned, and asked timidly:</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI couldn‚Äôt be tellin‚Äô Miss Pollyanna that‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat you‚Äôd seen Jimmy Bean again, I s‚Äôpose, sir, could I?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI don‚Äôt see how you could‚ÅÝ‚Äîas I haven‚Äôt seen him,‚Äù observed the man a little shortly. ‚ÄúWhy?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNothin‚Äô, sir, only‚ÅÝ‚Äîwell, ye see, that‚Äôs one of the things that she was feelin‚Äô bad about, that she couldn‚Äôt take him ter see you, now. She said she‚Äôd taken him once, but she didn‚Äôt think he showed off very well that day, and that she was afraid you didn‚Äôt think he would make a very nice child‚Äôs presence, after all. Maybe you know what she means by that; but I didn‚Äôt, sir.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes, I know‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhat she means.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAll right, sir. It was only that she was wantin‚Äô ter take him again, she said, so‚Äôs ter show ye he really was a lovely child‚Äôs presence. And now she‚ÅÝ‚Äîcan‚Äôt‚ÅÝ‚Äîdrat that autymobile! I begs yer pardon, sir. Goodbye!‚Äù And Nancy fled precipitately.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>It did not take long for the entire town of Beldingsville to learn that the great New York doctor had said Pollyanna Whittier would never walk again; and certainly never before had the town been so stirred. Everybody knew by sight now the piquant little freckled face that had always a smile of greeting; and almost everybody knew of the ‚Äúgame‚Äù that Pollyanna was playing. To think that now never again would that smiling face be seen on their streets‚ÅÝ‚Äînever again would that cheery little voice proclaim the gladness of some everyday experience! It seemed unbelievable, impossible, cruel.</p>
			<p>In kitchens and sitting rooms, and over backyard fences women talked of it, and wept openly. On street corners and in store lounging-places the men talked, too, and wept‚ÅÝ‚Äîthough not so openly. And neither the talking nor the weeping grew less when fast on the heels of the news itself, came Nancy‚Äôs pitiful story that Pollyanna, face to face with what had come to her, was bemoaning most of all the fact that she could not play the game; that she could not now be glad over‚ÅÝ‚Äîanything.</p>
			<p>It was then that the same thought must have, in some way, come to Pollyanna‚Äôs friends. At all events, almost at once, the mistress of the Harrington homestead, greatly to her surprise, began to receive calls: calls from people she knew, and people she did not know; calls from men, women, and children‚ÅÝ‚Äîmany of whom Miss Polly had not supposed that her niece knew at all.</p>
			<p>Some came in and sat down for a stiff five or ten minutes. Some stood awkwardly on the porch steps, fumbling with hats or handbags, according to their sex. Some brought a book, a bunch of flowers, or a dainty to tempt the palate. Some cried frankly. Some turned their backs and blew their noses furiously. But all inquired very anxiously for the little injured girl; and all sent to her some message‚ÅÝ‚Äîand it was these messages which, after a time, stirred Miss Polly to action.</p>
			<p>First came <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝJohn Pendleton. He came without his crutches today.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI don‚Äôt need to tell you how shocked I am,‚Äù he began almost harshly. ‚ÄúBut can‚ÅÝ‚Äînothing be done?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Miss Polly gave a gesture of despair.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, we‚Äôre ‚Äòdoing,‚Äô of course, all the time. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr>¬ÝMead prescribed certain treatments and medicines that might help, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr>¬ÝWarren is carrying them out to the letter, of course. But‚ÅÝ‚Äî<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr>¬ÝMead held out almost no hope.‚Äù</p>
			<p>John Pendleton rose abruptly‚ÅÝ‚Äîthough he had but just come. His face was white, and his mouth was set into stern lines. Miss Polly, looking at him, knew very well why he felt that he could not stay longer in her presence. At the door he turned.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI have a message for Pollyanna,‚Äù he said. ‚ÄúWill you tell her, please, that I have seen Jimmy Bean and‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat he‚Äôs going to be my boy hereafter. Tell her I thought she would be‚ÅÝ‚Äî<em>glad</em> to know. I shall adopt him, probably.‚Äù</p>
			<p>For a brief moment Miss Polly lost her usual well-bred self-control.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYou will adopt Jimmy Bean!‚Äù she gasped.</p>
			<p>The man lifted his chin a little.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes. I think Pollyanna will understand. You will tell her I thought she would be‚ÅÝ‚Äî<em>glad</em>!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhy, of‚ÅÝ‚Äîof course,‚Äù faltered Miss Polly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThank you,‚Äù bowed John Pendleton, as he turned to go.</p>
			<p>In the middle of the floor Miss Polly stood, silent and amazed, still looking after the man who had just left her. Even yet she could scarcely believe what her ears had heard. John Pendleton <em>adopt</em> Jimmy Bean? John Pendleton, wealthy, independent, morose, reputed to be miserly and supremely selfish, to adopt a little boy‚ÅÝ‚Äîand such a little boy?</p>
			<p>With a somewhat dazed face Miss Polly went upstairs to Pollyanna‚Äôs room.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúPollyanna, I have a message for you from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝJohn Pendleton. He has just been here. He says to tell you he has taken Jimmy Bean for his little boy. He said he thought you‚Äôd be glad to know it.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Pollyanna‚Äôs wistful little face flamed into sudden joy.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúGlad? <em>Glad?</em> Well, I reckon I am glad! Oh, Aunt Polly, I‚Äôve so wanted to find a place for Jimmy‚ÅÝ‚Äîand that‚Äôs such a lovely place! Besides, I‚Äôm so glad for <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝPendleton, too. You see, now he‚Äôll have the child‚Äôs presence.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThe‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhat?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Pollyanna colored painfully. She had forgotten that she had never told her aunt of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝPendleton‚Äôs desire to adopt her‚ÅÝ‚Äîand certainly she would not wish to tell her now that she had ever thought for a minute of leaving her‚ÅÝ‚Äîthis dear Aunt Polly!</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThe child‚Äôs presence,‚Äù stammered Pollyanna, hastily. ‚Äú<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr>¬ÝPendleton told me once, you see, that only a woman‚Äôs hand and heart or a child‚Äôs presence could make a‚ÅÝ‚Äîa home. And now he‚Äôs got it‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe child‚Äôs presence.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, I‚ÅÝ‚Äîsee,‚Äù said Miss Polly very gently; and she did see‚ÅÝ‚Äîmore than Pollyanna realized. She saw something of the pressure that was probably brought to bear on Pollyanna herself at the time John Pendleton was asking <em>her</em> to be the ‚Äúchild‚Äôs presence,‚Äù which was to transform his great pile of gray stone into a home. ‚ÄúI see,‚Äù she finished, her eyes stinging with sudden tears.</p>
			<p>Pollyanna, fearful that her aunt might ask further embarrassing questions, hastened to lead the conversation away from the Pendleton house and its master.</p>
			<p>‚Äú<abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr>¬ÝChilton says so, too‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat it takes a woman‚Äôs hand and heart, or a child‚Äôs presence, to make a home, you know,‚Äù she remarked.</p>
			<p>Miss Polly turned with a start.</p>
			<p>‚Äú<em><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr>¬ÝChilton</em>! How do you know‚ÅÝ‚Äîthat?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe told me so. ‚ÄôTwas when he said he lived in just rooms, you know‚ÅÝ‚Äînot a home.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Miss Polly did not answer. Her eyes were out the window.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSo I asked him why he didn‚Äôt get ‚Äôem‚ÅÝ‚Äîa woman‚Äôs hand and heart, and have a home.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúPollyanna!‚Äù Miss Polly had turned sharply. Her cheeks showed a sudden color.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, I did. He looked so‚ÅÝ‚Äîso sorrowful.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat did he‚ÅÝ‚Äîsay?‚Äù Miss Polly asked the question as if in spite of some force within her that was urging her not to ask it.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe didn‚Äôt say anything for a minute; then he said very low that you couldn‚Äôt always get ‚Äôem for the asking.‚Äù</p>
			<p>There was a brief silence. Miss Polly‚Äôs eyes had turned again to the window. Her cheeks were still unnaturally pink.</p>
			<p>Pollyanna sighed.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHe wants one, anyhow, I know, and I wish he could have one.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhy, Pollyanna, <em>how</em> do you know?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBecause, afterwards, on another day, he said something else. He said that low, too, but I heard him. He said that he‚Äôd give all the world if he did have one woman‚Äôs hand and heart. Why, Aunt Polly, what‚Äôs the matter?‚Äù Aunt Polly had risen hurriedly and gone to the window.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúNothing, dear. I was changing the position of this prism,‚Äù said Aunt Polly, whose whole face now was aflame.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
