<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>VIII: Pollyanna Pays a Visit</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-8" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="z3998:ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Pollyanna Pays a Visit</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>It was not long before life at the Harrington homestead settled into something like order‚ÅÝ‚Äîthough not exactly the order that Miss Polly had at first prescribed. Pollyanna sewed, practiced, read aloud, and studied cooking in the kitchen, it is true; but she did not give to any of these things quite so much time as had first been planned. She had more time, also, to ‚Äújust live,‚Äù as she expressed it, for almost all of every afternoon from two until six o‚Äôclock was hers to do with as she liked‚ÅÝ‚Äîprovided she did not ‚Äúlike‚Äù to do certain things already prohibited by Aunt Polly.</p>
			<p>It is a question, perhaps, whether all this leisure time was given to the child as a relief to Pollyanna from work‚ÅÝ‚Äîor as a relief to Aunt Polly from Pollyanna. Certainly, as those first July days passed, Miss Polly found occasion many times to ejaculate ‚ÄúWhat an extraordinary child!‚Äù and certainly the reading and sewing lessons found her at their conclusion each day somewhat dazed and wholly exhausted.</p>
			<p>Nancy, in the kitchen, fared better. She was not dazed nor exhausted. Wednesdays and Saturdays came to be, indeed, red-letter days to her.</p>
			<p>There were no children in the immediate neighborhood of the Harrington homestead for Pollyanna to play with. The house itself was on the outskirts of the village, and though there were other houses not far away, they did not chance to contain any boys or girls near Pollyanna‚Äôs age. This, however, did not seem to disturb Pollyanna in the least.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, no, I don‚Äôt mind it at all,‚Äù she explained to Nancy. ‚ÄúI‚Äôm happy just to walk around and see the streets and the houses and watch the people. I just love people. Don‚Äôt you, Nancy?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, I can‚Äôt say I do‚ÅÝ‚Äîall of ‚Äôem,‚Äù retorted Nancy, tersely.</p>
			<p>Almost every pleasant afternoon found Pollyanna begging for ‚Äúan errand to run,‚Äù so that she might be off for a walk in one direction or another; and it was on these walks that frequently she met the Man. To herself Pollyanna always called him ‚Äúthe Man,‚Äù no matter if she met a dozen other men the same day.</p>
			<p>The Man often wore a long black coat and a high silk hat‚ÅÝ‚Äîtwo things that the ‚Äújust men‚Äù never wore. His face was clean shaven and rather pale, and his hair, showing below his hat, was somewhat gray. He walked erect, and rather rapidly, and he was always alone, which made Pollyanna vaguely sorry for him. Perhaps it was because of this that she one day spoke to him.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHow do you do, sir? Isn‚Äôt this a nice day?‚Äù she called cheerily, as she approached him.</p>
			<p>The man threw a hurried glance about him, then stopped uncertainly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDid you speak‚ÅÝ‚Äîto me?‚Äù he asked in a sharp voice.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes, sir,‚Äù beamed Pollyanna. ‚ÄúI say, it‚Äôs a nice day, isn‚Äôt it?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúEh? Oh! Humph!‚Äù he grunted; and strode on again.</p>
			<p>Pollyanna laughed. He was such a funny man, she thought.</p>
			<p>The next day she saw him again.</p>
			<p>‚Äú‚Ää‚ÄôTisn‚Äôt quite so nice as yesterday, but it‚Äôs pretty nice,‚Äù she called out cheerfully.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúEh? Oh! Humph!‚Äù grunted the man as before; and once again Pollyanna laughed happily.</p>
			<p>When for the third time Pollyanna accosted him in much the same manner, the man stopped abruptly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúSee here, child, who are you, and why are you speaking to me every day?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI‚Äôm Pollyanna Whittier, and I thought you looked lonesome. I‚Äôm so glad you stopped. Now we‚Äôre introduced‚ÅÝ‚Äîonly I don‚Äôt know your name yet.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, of all the‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù The man did not finish his sentence, but strode on faster than ever.</p>
			<p>Pollyanna looked after him with a disappointed droop to her usually smiling lips.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMaybe he didn‚Äôt understand‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut that was only half an introduction. I don‚Äôt know <em>his</em> name, yet,‚Äù she murmured, as she proceeded on her way.</p>
			<p>Pollyanna was carrying calf‚Äôs-foot jelly to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝSnow today. Miss Polly Harrington always sent something to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝSnow once a week. She said she thought that it was her duty, inasmuch as <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝSnow was poor, sick, and a member of her church‚ÅÝ‚Äîit was the duty of all the church members to look out for her, of course. Miss Polly did her duty by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝSnow usually on Thursday afternoons‚ÅÝ‚Äînot personally, but through Nancy. Today Pollyanna had begged the privilege, and Nancy had promptly given it to her in accordance with Miss Polly‚Äôs orders.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúAnd it‚Äôs glad that I am ter get rid of it,‚Äù Nancy had declared in private afterwards to Pollyanna; ‚Äúthough it‚Äôs a shame ter be tuckin‚Äô the job off on ter you, poor lamb, so it is, it is!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBut I‚Äôd love to do it, Nancy.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, you won‚Äôt‚ÅÝ‚Äîafter you‚Äôve done it once,‚Äù predicted Nancy, sourly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhy not?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBecause nobody does. If folks wa‚Äôn‚Äôt sorry for her there wouldn‚Äôt a soul go near her from mornin‚Äô till night, she‚Äôs that cantankerous. All is, I pity her daughter what <em>has</em> ter take care of her.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBut, why, Nancy?‚Äù</p>
			<p>Nancy shrugged her shoulders.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, in plain words, it‚Äôs just that nothin‚Äô what ever has happened, has happened right in Mis‚Äô Snow‚Äôs eyes. Even the days of the week ain‚Äôt run ter her mind. If it‚Äôs Monday she‚Äôs bound ter say she wished ‚Äôtwas Sunday; and if you take her jelly you‚Äôre pretty sure ter hear she wanted chicken‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut if you <em>did</em> bring her chicken, she‚Äôd be jest hankerin‚Äô for lamb broth!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhy, what a funny woman,‚Äù laughed Pollyanna. ‚ÄúI think I shall like to go to see her. She must be so surprising and‚ÅÝ‚Äîand different. I love <em>different</em> folks.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHumph! Well, Mis‚Äô Snow‚Äôs ‚Äòdifferent,‚Äô all right‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI hope, for the sake of the rest of us!‚Äù Nancy had finished grimly.</p>
			<p>Pollyanna was thinking of these remarks today as she turned in at the gate of the shabby little cottage. Her eyes were quite sparkling, indeed, at the prospect of meeting this ‚Äúdifferent‚Äù <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝSnow.</p>
			<p>A pale-faced, tired-looking young girl answered her knock at the door.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHow do you do?‚Äù began Pollyanna politely. ‚ÄúI‚Äôm from Miss Polly Harrington, and I‚Äôd like to see <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝSnow, please.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, if you would, you‚Äôre the first one that ever ‚Äòliked‚Äô to see her,‚Äù muttered the girl under her breath; but Pollyanna did not hear this. The girl had turned and was leading the way through the hall to a door at the end of it.</p>
			<p>In the sickroom, after the girl had ushered her in and closed the door, Pollyanna blinked a little before she could accustom her eyes to the gloom. Then she saw, dimly outlined, a woman half-sitting up in the bed across the room. Pollyanna advanced at once.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHow do you do, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝSnow? Aunt Polly says she hopes you are comfortable today, and she‚Äôs sent you some calf‚Äôs-foot jelly.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDear me! Jelly?‚Äù murmured a fretful voice. ‚ÄúOf course I‚Äôm very much obliged, but I was hoping ‚Äôtwould be lamb broth today.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Pollyanna frowned a little.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhy, I thought it was <em>chicken</em> you wanted when folks brought you jelly,‚Äù she said.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhat?‚Äù The sick woman turned sharply.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhy, nothing, much,‚Äù apologized Pollyanna, hurriedly; ‚Äúand of course it doesn‚Äôt really make any difference. It‚Äôs only that Nancy said it was chicken you wanted when we brought jelly, and lamb broth when we brought chicken‚ÅÝ‚Äîbut maybe ‚Äôtwas the other way, and Nancy forgot.‚Äù</p>
			<p>The sick woman pulled herself up till she sat erect in the bed‚ÅÝ‚Äîa most unusual thing for her to do, though Pollyanna did not know this.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, Miss Impertinence, who are you?‚Äù she demanded.</p>
			<p>Pollyanna laughed gleefully.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, <em>that</em> isn‚Äôt my name, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝSnow‚ÅÝ‚Äîand I‚Äôm so glad ‚Äôtisn‚Äôt, too! That would be worse than ‚ÄòHephzibah,‚Äô wouldn‚Äôt it? I‚Äôm Pollyanna Whittier, Miss Polly Harrington‚Äôs niece, and I‚Äôve come to live with her. That‚Äôs why I‚Äôm here with the jelly this morning.‚Äù</p>
			<p>All through the first part of this sentence, the sick woman had sat interestedly erect; but at the reference to the jelly she fell back on her pillow listlessly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúVery well; thank you. Your aunt is very kind, of course, but my appetite isn‚Äôt very good this morning, and I was wanting lamb‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äù She stopped suddenly, then went on with an abrupt change of subject. ‚ÄúI never slept a wink last night‚ÅÝ‚Äînot a wink!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúO dear, I wish <i>I</i> didn‚Äôt,‚Äù sighed Pollyanna, placing the jelly on the little stand and seating herself comfortably in the nearest chair. ‚ÄúYou lose such a lot of time just sleeping! Don‚Äôt you think so?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúLose time‚ÅÝ‚Äîsleeping!‚Äù exclaimed the sick woman.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúYes, when you might be just living, you know. It seems such a pity we can‚Äôt live nights, too.‚Äù</p>
			<p>Once again the woman pulled herself erect in her bed.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, if you ain‚Äôt the amazing young one!‚Äù she cried. ‚ÄúHere! do you go to that window and pull up the curtain,‚Äù she directed. ‚ÄúI should like to know what you look like!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Pollyanna rose to her feet, but she laughed a little ruefully.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúO dear! then you‚Äôll see my freckles, won‚Äôt you?‚Äù she sighed, as she went to the window; ‚Äú‚ÅÝ‚Äîand just when I was being so glad it was dark and you couldn‚Äôt see ‚Äôem. There! Now you can‚ÅÝ‚Äîoh!‚Äù she broke off excitedly, as she turned back to the bed; ‚ÄúI‚Äôm so glad you wanted to see me, because now I can see you! They didn‚Äôt tell me you were so pretty!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMe!‚ÅÝ‚Äîpretty!‚Äù scoffed the woman, bitterly.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhy, yes. Didn‚Äôt you know it?‚Äù cried Pollyanna.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, no, I didn‚Äôt,‚Äù retorted <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝSnow, dryly. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝSnow had lived forty years, and for fifteen of those years she had been too busy wishing things were different to find much time to enjoy things as they were.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, but your eyes are so big and dark, and your hair‚Äôs all dark, too, and curly,‚Äù cooed Pollyanna. ‚ÄúI love black curls. (That‚Äôs one of the things I‚Äôm going to have when I get to Heaven.) And you‚Äôve got two little red spots in your cheeks. Why, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝSnow, you <em>are</em> pretty! I should think you‚Äôd know it when you looked at yourself in the glass.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThe glass!‚Äù snapped the sick woman, falling back on her pillow. ‚ÄúYes, well, I hain‚Äôt done much prinkin‚Äô before the mirror these days‚ÅÝ‚Äîand you wouldn‚Äôt, if you was flat on your back as I am!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhy, no, of course not,‚Äù agreed Pollyanna, sympathetically. ‚ÄúBut wait‚ÅÝ‚Äîjust let me show you,‚Äù she exclaimed, skipping over to the bureau and picking up a small hand-glass.</p>
			<p>On the way back to the bed she stopped, eyeing the sick woman with a critical gaze.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI reckon maybe, if you don‚Äôt mind, I‚Äôd like to fix your hair just a little before I let you see it,‚Äù she proposed. ‚ÄúMay I fix your hair, please?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhy, I‚ÅÝ‚Äîsuppose so, if you want to,‚Äù permitted <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝSnow, grudgingly; ‚Äúbut ‚Äôtwon‚Äôt stay, you know.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, thank you. I love to fix people‚Äôs hair,‚Äù exulted Pollyanna, carefully laying down the hand-glass and reaching for a comb. ‚ÄúI shan‚Äôt do much today, of course‚ÅÝ‚ÄîI‚Äôm in such a hurry for you to see how pretty you are; but some day I‚Äôm going to take it all down and have a perfectly lovely time with it,‚Äù she cried, touching with soft fingers the waving hair above the sick woman‚Äôs forehead.</p>
			<p>For five minutes Pollyanna worked swiftly, deftly, combing a refractory curl into fluffiness, perking up a drooping ruffle at the neck, or shaking a pillow into plumpness so that the head might have a better pose. Meanwhile the sick woman, frowning prodigiously, and openly scoffing at the whole procedure, was, in spite of herself, beginning to tingle with a feeling perilously near to excitement.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThere!‚Äù panted Pollyanna, hastily plucking a pink from a vase near by and tucking it into the dark hair where it would give the best effect. ‚ÄúNow I reckon we‚Äôre ready to be looked at!‚Äù And she held out the mirror in triumph.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHumph!‚Äù grunted the sick woman, eyeing her reflection severely. ‚ÄúI like red pinks better than pink ones; but then, it‚Äôll fade, anyhow, before night, so what‚Äôs the difference!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBut I should think you‚Äôd be glad they did fade,‚Äù laughed Pollyanna, ‚Äú‚Ää‚Äôcause then you can have the fun of getting some more. I just love your hair fluffed out like that,‚Äù she finished with a satisfied gaze. ‚ÄúDon‚Äôt you?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúHm-m; maybe. Still‚ÅÝ‚Äî‚Äôtwon‚Äôt last, with me tossing back and forth on the pillow as I do.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOf course not‚ÅÝ‚Äîand I‚Äôm glad, too,‚Äù nodded Pollyanna, cheerfully, ‚Äúbecause then I can fix it again. Anyhow, I should think you‚Äôd be glad it‚Äôs black‚ÅÝ‚Äîblack shows up so much nicer on a pillow than yellow hair like mine does.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúMaybe; but I never did set much store by black hair‚ÅÝ‚Äîshows gray too soon,‚Äù retorted <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝSnow. She spoke fretfully, but she still held the mirror before her face.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, I love black hair! I should be so glad if I only had it,‚Äù sighed Pollyanna.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝSnow dropped the mirror and turned irritably.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, you wouldn‚Äôt!‚ÅÝ‚Äînot if you were me. You wouldn‚Äôt be glad for black hair nor anything else‚ÅÝ‚Äîif you had to lie here all day as I do!‚Äù</p>
			<p>Pollyanna bent her brows in a thoughtful frown.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhy, ‚Äôtwould be kind of hard‚ÅÝ‚Äîto do it then, wouldn‚Äôt it?‚Äù she mused aloud.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúDo what?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBe glad about things.‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúBe glad about things‚ÅÝ‚Äîwhen you‚Äôre sick in bed all your days? Well, I should say it would,‚Äù retorted <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝSnow. ‚ÄúIf you don‚Äôt think so, just tell me something to be glad about; that‚Äôs all!‚Äù</p>
			<p>To <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝSnow‚Äôs unbounded amazement, Pollyanna sprang to her feet and clapped her hands.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúOh, goody! That‚Äôll be a hard one‚ÅÝ‚Äîwon‚Äôt it? I‚Äôve got to go, now, but I‚Äôll think and think all the way home; and maybe the next time I come I can tell it to you. Goodbye. I‚Äôve had a lovely time! Goodbye,‚Äù she called again, as she tripped through the doorway.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, I never! Now, what does she mean by that?‚Äù ejaculated <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝSnow, staring after her visitor. By and by she turned her head and picked up the mirror, eyeing her reflection critically.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúThat little thing <em>has</em> got a knack with hair and no mistake,‚Äù she muttered under her breath. ‚ÄúI declare, I didn‚Äôt know it could look so pretty. But then, what‚Äôs the use?‚Äù she sighed, dropping the little glass into the bedclothes, and rolling her head on the pillow fretfully.</p>
			<p>A little later, when Milly, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝSnow‚Äôs daughter, came in, the mirror still lay among the bedclothes‚ÅÝ‚Äîthough it had been carefully hidden from sight.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhy, mother‚ÅÝ‚Äîthe curtain is up!‚Äù cried Milly, dividing her amazed stare between the window and the pink in her mother‚Äôs hair.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWell, what if it is?‚Äù snapped the sick woman. ‚ÄúI needn‚Äôt stay in the dark all my life, if I am sick, need I?‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhy, n-no, of course not,‚Äù rejoined Milly, in hasty conciliation, as she reached for the medicine bottle. ‚ÄúIt‚Äôs only‚ÅÝ‚Äîwell, you know very well that I‚Äôve tried to get you to have a lighter room for ages and you wouldn‚Äôt.‚Äù</p>
			<p>There was no reply to this. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr>¬ÝSnow was picking at the lace on her nightgown. At last she spoke fretfully.</p>
			<p>‚ÄúI should think <em>somebody</em> might give me a new nightdress‚ÅÝ‚Äîinstead of lamb broth, for a change!‚Äù</p>
			<p>‚ÄúWhy‚ÅÝ‚Äîmother!‚Äù</p>
			<p>No wonder Milly quite gasped aloud with bewilderment. In the drawer behind her at that moment lay two new nightdresses that Milly for months had been vainly urging her mother to wear.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
